jnu: stands for JNU(Jawaharlal Nehru University)

HISTORY OF JNU:
The Jawaharlal Nehru University constituted under the Jawaharlal Nehru University Act 1966, (53 of 1966) came into existence in
1969. Its objectives, as defined in the First Schedule of the Act, are as follows:
"The University shall endeavour to promote the principles for which Jawaharlal Nehru worked during his life-time, national integration,
social justice, secularism, democratic way of life, international understanding and scientific approach to the problems of society.
For more details , visit the JNU website : https://www.jnu.ac.in

SCHOOLS IN JNU:
(I)School of International Studies
(ii) School of Language, Literature and Culture Studies
(iii) School of Social Sciences
(iv) School of Arts and Aesthetics
(v) School of Life Sciences
(vi) School of Environmental Sciences
(vii) School of Computer and Systems Sciences
(viii) School of Physical Sciences
(ix) School of Computational and Integrative Sciences
(x) School of Biotechnology
(xi) School of Sanskrit and Indic Studies
(xii) School of Engineering
(xiii) Atal Bihari Vajpayee School of Management and Entrepreneurship
(xiv) School of Indian Traditional Music and Dance
(xv) Special Centre for E-Learning
(xvi) Special Centre for Molecular Medicine
(xvii) Special Centre for the Study of Law and Governance
(xviii) Special Centre for Nano Sciences
(xix) Special Centre for Disaster Research
(xx) Special Centre for the Study of North East India
(xxi) Special Centre for National Security Studies
(xxii) Special Centre for Systems Medicine 
 For more details , visit the JNU website : https://www.jnu.ac.in  .


RESERVATION OF SEATS FOR SCHEDULE CASTE (SC)/TRIBE (ST) APPLICANTS
 15 % of the total numbers of seats are reserved for applicants belonging to Scheduled Caste and 7.5% for Scheduled Tribes.
Applicant must note that Certificate from any person/ authority, other than the Competent Authority empowered to issue such
For more details , visit the JNU website : https://www.jnu.ac.in

RESERVATION(PWD)
As per the provisions of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, not less than five percent (5%) seats are reserved in admission
for Persons with Benchmark Disabilities, where “person with benchmark disability” means a person with not less than forty percent
(40%) of a specified disability where specified disability has not been defined in measurable terms and includes a person with disability,
as certified by the certifying authority.
For more details , visit the JNU website : https://www.jnu.ac.in

RESERVATION(EWSs) 
In accordance with the provisions of the constitution (One Hundred and Third Amendment) Act 2019, and with reference to OM No.
20013/01/2018-BC-II dated 17th January, 2019 of Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, enabling provision of reservation for
For more details , visit the JNU website : https://www.jnu.ac.in





FELLOWSHIPS/SCHOLARSHIPS/ AWARDS:
The details of Fellowships/Scholarships sponsor by various external agencies/other departments can be referred to by the interested
candidates by accessing the website of the concerned departments.
tudents as per the terms &
conditions of the fellowships and subject to availability of funds, through a separate circular/notice.
For more details , visit the JNU website : https://www.jnu.ac.in

UNIVERSITY HEALTH CENTRE/MEDICAL SERVICES:
University Health Centre (UHC) is located near the north gate of South West of Ganga Dhaba.
Emergency Ambulance mobile numbers: 9971728866 & 9971728877.,
For more details , visit the JNU website : https://www.jnu.ac.in

GAMES AND SPORTS:
The University's Sports Office is located in the Sports Stadium, and is being looked after by one full-time Asst. Director of Physical
Education. The Sports Office also runs a Yoga Centre. Yoga Classes are held both in the morning and evening. In addition, workshops, special
lectures, demonstrations and short courses are also conducted throughout the year.
For more details , visit the JNU website : https://www.jnu.ac.in


CULTURAL ACTIVITIES:
Cultural activities among the student community on the campus are promoted through various cultural clubs namely: Debating, Drama, Film,
Fine Arts, Literary, Music and Dance, Nature and Wild Life, Photography, and UNESCO.
For more details , visit the JNU website : https://www.jnu.ac.in

ANTI RAGGING POLICY OF THE UNIVERSITY:
In order to prohibit, prevent and eliminate the scourge of ragging, the University has implemented the regulations notified by the University
Grants Commission on curbing the Menace of Ragging in Higher Educational Institutions, 2009 in view of the directions of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court of India. 
For more details , visit the JNU website : https://www.jnu.ac.in

FEE AND MODE OF PAYMENT:
Tuition Fee (Annual) Rs.216.00*** Rs.120.00
2 Sports Fee (Annual) Rs.16.50 Rs.16.50
3 Literary & Cultural Fee (Annual) Rs.16.50 Rs.16.50
4 Library Fee (Annual) Rs.6.00 Rs.6.00
5 Medical fee (Annual) Rs.9.00 ----
6 Medical Booklet Rs.12.00 ----
7 Students Aid Fund (Annual) Rs.4.50 ----
8 *Admission Fee Rs.5.00 Rs.5.00
9 *Enrolment Fee Rs.5.00 Rs.5.00
10 *Security Deposit (Refundable) Rs.40.00 Rs.40.00
11 Identity Card Folder Rs.10.00 Rs.10.00
For more details , visit the JNU website : https://www.jnu.ac.in

hostels in jnu
Brahmaputra (boys),Chandrabhaga (boys & girls)Ganga (girls)Godavari (girls),Jhelum (boys),Kaveri (boys)
Koyna (girls)
Lohit (boys & girls)
Mahi/Mandavi (boys)
Mahanadi (MRSH) (married students)
Narmada (boys)
Periyar (boys)
Sabarmati (boys & girls)
Shipra (girls)
Sutlej (boys)
Tapti (boys & girls)
Yamuna (Working Women)
Damodar
For more details , visit the JNU website : https://www.jnu.ac.in


SCSS JNU:Ever since its inception in 1974, this department has been trying to meet the computing needs of 
different Schols in JNU and offering specially designed courses for their students.After the completion of the course,
 the students are fully competent to enter the Global IT- world as well as the fields of Research & Development at 
prestigious institutions in India and abroad.The various programmes offered in the 
Schol of Computer and System Sciences are M.C.A. (4 Semesters), M.Tech.(4 Semesters) and Ph.D. 
These courses are designed to provide the necessary theoretical background and practical experience in Computer Science and Applications,
 to meet the growing manpower requirements of the Global Software & hardware Industry. 
The last semester for M.C.A. course is meant for an Industrial Project, where as, each M.Tech. 
student has to work in the chosen field under the guidance of a Professor and has to submit a dissertation at the end of the third semester.

Prof. Piyush Pratap Singh :
Email: piyushpsingh@mail.jnu.ac.in
Room No: 204 B
Residence: 9314474403
Qualifications: Phd In computer application,Masters of computer application,Bachelor of science
Areas of Interest/Specialization
Artificial intelligence, Natural language processing, Remote sensing GIS